---
layout: blog_index
title: "The Financial Industrial Complex and Buybacks"
date: 2025-05-26
---

I thought I’d take a page out of the Mike Green playbook and write about something I see as both pervasive—and maybe even a little perverse—within the financial industrial complex: stock buybacks.

Years ago, I stumbled across a phenomenal book called The Outsiders by William N. Thorndike. I think I found it by Googling “Buffett reading list.” It profiles unconventional CEOs who drove exceptional business and stock performance. One standout was Henry Singleton of Teledyne, whose masterful use of buybacks became the stuff of legend.

Singleton would opportunistically buy back Teledyne stock when he believed it was undervalued. He once said, “I don’t believe all this nonsense about market timing… but when no one wants your stock, it’s probably a good time to buy it.”

Which begs the question: do today’s corporate stewards approach buybacks with the same discipline as Henry Singleton?

To be clear, as an investor, I love buybacks—often more than dividends. The idea of reducing share count in a tax-efficient way is a beautiful thing. But here’s my question to you, dear reader: have buybacks gone too far?

In 2024, a staggering 87% of S&P 500 companies—435 in total—engaged in share repurchase programs, amounting to $945.5 billion in buybacks.

And yet… both Warren Buffett and Jamie Dimon paused buybacks at Berkshire and JPMorgan in 2024, citing valuation concerns. Two of the most respected capital allocators alive are saying: We think we can put our capital to better use than buying our own stock at current prices. That should make everyone pause.

What’s also concerning is the quiet role of debt in funding many of these repurchases. Now, before anyone gives me a lesson on capital structure theory—I’m not arguing that debt and buybacks are inherently bad. But the S&P 500’s rising debt load should raise questions, especially as we enter a higher-rate refinancing environment.

When these companies face rollover risk at higher interest rates, do they keep buying back stock—or do they finally prioritize paying down debt?

What’s clear is this: the mix of relentless buybacks, passive inflows, and increasing leverage has created a world where “number go up” feels less like a result of fundamental strength, and more like a structural necessity. And that, frankly, should scare us all.


